Welcome back.
So we've gotten our set up our app is running and functioning and now we're able to take a look at the
code again.
I like looking at the code.
Once everything is running you make sure that you've gotten all your environmental variables like API
keys from the team and your data base is all set up and if you remember we have our client app which
is a re-act up where is it right here.
We have our database that is running locally on our computer and then we have our server and I have
three windows here for each one of these.
Because in the real world in production we're most likely going to have these on different servers or
different computers.
So now that we have everything set up let's take a walk through through the code.
I always prefer going through the API first so that I can look at the endpoints because the points tell
a lot about the app.
And over here let me minimize this a little bit.
Over here I can start looking at the folder snarkier and I see that it's not too complicated.
We have a server dodgiest file which I'm assuming is our main entry point and then we have controllers
and controllers sound like something that have the logic for our endpoints.
So the first thing I'm going to do look at the folder structure I've looked already a package that Jaison
I obviously am also going to read the read me that the project provides and then go to the entry point
and see what kind of packages they're using.
I see they're they're using Express body parsers so that we can get the Jaison body from a request or
request our body we're using be crypt which is a hashing library for most likely hashing passwords.
We're using course to give access to what domains can access the server we K'NEX which we've talked
about.
It's an R R M which allows us to make Q All statements to our database and by the way I absolutely love
this library I highly recommend it.
It works with my Eskew well post Cresson a ton of other databases.
And then we have our controllers our register sign in profile image.
We have our database set up which we've already talked about and then we have a basic express server
set up with cores that allows us to be up to access it from anywhere.
So any domain can access it right now.
And this is something that we cover in the security section.
So we'll leave that for the security session.
We have body potsherd Jaison again for us to be able to read Song from our endpoints and this is a pretty
standard express server.
We're listening to port 3000.
And I can see that in the endpoints we have our seinen register profile ID image and image you RL And
just by reading these endpoints we have an idea of what the app does.
It allows users to sign in and register to maybe grab a profile each individual profiles to do some
update to the image endpoint.
It's a put.
And then to post image you are real and I see that each one of them has the handle register handle profile
get handle image handle API call.
So now I can just go into each controller and just have an overview what each one does.
Again we've seen this before we set up clarify API and looks like the image is just simply saying I'm
going to make an API call to the clarify API and we're going to use the face detect model.
This is straight from their documentation and that's going to return their response their data from
the API and on our end.
We also have a handle image and this handle image looks like we're grabbing the user's database using
K'NEX syntax where the I.D. equals to the ID of the request.
Body.
And we just increment the entries by one and return the entries and return that to the front and so
handle image looks like every time we increment or we send an image this entry count gets increased.
All right so that's the image file we look at the profile.
Again handle profile get is pretty self-explanatory.
We grabbed the profile ID we select everything from the user's table.
If the I.D. matches with that request because remember in the server dodginess we are doing this semi-colon
ID to grab the parameters of what the request was
and again we're just returning the users that we got from the database.
For register a little bit more complicated but looking at it we're just handling register.
Looks like we're hashing our passwords which is really really good security practice.
Again this is something that we're going to talk about and have an exercise on in the security section
and it looks like we update so we insert the hash in the email and the log in table and then we also
use the user's table to insert the e-mail name and the date that is joint.
So that's just the registering
and then finally for seinen with handling seinen we are simply selecting that e-mail and the hash from
the log in table.
If the email matches whatever the front end gave us and then we do something Coleby gripped compare
against something that we talk about in the security section where we compare the password to the hash
that is stored in the database.
Again a safe way to store information about the user and allow them to log in if it's valid we give
them the user information.
Otherwise we say wrong credentials.
All right so that's not too bad.
That was a nice run through.
We don't have to learn too much about the codebase.
And mind you on some project you'll get on and there's a lot more folders but with a logical step by
step you have an idea what the app does especially now that you've gone through the app you can kind
of guess where each one of these points are used.
Let's go to the front end up the front end up right away we see that it is a reactor project and we
can't just open up our source folder.
And usually they'll have a component's a container folder and other folders they can see.
But do you always want to start off with index cards.
Yes.
Make sure that you see whatever libraries that they're using it looks like they're using tacky onse
for styling and on the index stodginess it looks like there's no provider here so they're not using
redux just simple re-act app and that the entry point is the app.
So again we go to APT.
Yes and we see what the main component has.
We see that they're using a lot of components here.
And the first thing I like to do is to look at the initial state that the app needs.
Again because we're now using redux the state usually lives in the components and we see that there's
an output image you Arel we have something called Box which we're not too sure of.
We see that the road is seinen is signed in is false and then we have user information again just by
looking at the state.
We have an idea of what the app information is going to look like.
The state and the app we see that all right we have the load user we have the calculate face location
and again this is why it's important.
Name your functions really well because if you have a new team member coming onto the project it's nice
for them to say oh OK so this calculates where the face location is and the image just by the name.
We have the display face box.
We have the on put change which probably could be a little bit more descriptive on button Samit and
we see that we do a few fresh calls so on button Samit looks like a very important one because we have
Thach another fecche year and we're doing all these things.
So we should get back to this and see what it's doing.
We have on route change which again looks like we're handling routes.
And I also like looking at the component the main component and seeing.
All right so they're loading up a navigation particles which is what we see over here.
These this school background that moves around we see that we have the navigation with Simon and change
and then we see that if the route is home we give them the logo ranke image link form and face recognition.
And then if it's not we give them the sign in or register component.
So immediately we kind of have an idea of the structure of the app and just by looking at this we see
where we can improve how things could be cleaned up.
We also see that this app component is getting pretty big with all these methods maybe redux might be
a good thing to start looking at or perhaps having more than one container.
All things that you can do as you browse through the code but I want to give you a side note here.
A lot of programmers when they first come onto a project the first thing they do is criticize.
They look at this code and says Say well what's with all this this is terrible this looks so ugly like
what's with this on and put change function name that's not descriptive at all.
Whoever wrote this is so dumb I should change this and oh this is too ugly like these sir.
This is already too much complication we should break.
We should have extra components here that is a lot neater.
And this happens quite a lot where a person comes onto the project and immediately starts criticizing
the code.
And yes there's definitely things that we can improve here.
But a senior developer knows that when they come onto a project it's not necessarily the oh why did
they put the on and put change here.
That's such a non-descriptive name but they weren't there when this function was run.
They weren't there when this component was created.
When the decision was made to make routing like this and with that lack of information you don't have
that right to necessarily criticize.
I mean constructive criticism and saying this could be improved is a good way of looking at it but you
can't go and say this is wrong this is terrible code.
I have to fix all of this because you don't know what the developers at the time knew maybe they were
under a time crunch.
Maybe they were training a junior developer and this was their first PR as a senior developer.
You look at this in an unemotional way looking at the code seeing where in the future you might want
to improve the code but without criticism just being completely neutral because when you come on a project
the goal is not to stand out and improve and make everything better.
The goal is to integrate into the project with the team and work together to make the project better.
I know I kind of went on a tangent here but it's so important because it's something that I see all
the time and it really is an unfortunate characteristic that I think some of the top developers that
I've seen have this where they look at the code neutrally without criticism or it just went on a tangent
there let's get back on track.
All right.
So let's just take a look at the on button submit.
If I go to the on button submit here whereas it it looks like the image link form I have the on button
submit and on but change just by the names.
I know that.
All right.
It's most likely this.
So this detect button that's where we're doing all those fecche calls.
Seems like the most important part of the app and I can take a look at these fecche calls to see what's
happening in the app.
All right so I am fetching to localhost 3000 image you RL.
So that's our API server and we're doing a post request and this image Jaro if we go to that endpoint
we see that oh yeah it's handling the API call.
Remember this is what makes the call to the clarify API and it handles the API call and that's it.
It returns the data.
So right away we see that okay we're getting the data from clarify.
It's going to have a response and this response if we have a response we do a nother fess up to the
image and point that is a put.
And if you remember this was the end point that incremented our entries.
So if everything succeeds and we get a response we increment the number of the entries by 1 and then
once we get all of that we update the state to increase the users and trees count.
Ok that makes sense.
So that's what happens when we hit detect and the number increases here.
But what about the face detection.
Well the first detection again we have a nice name here once everything goes through.
We display the face box kind of a weird name.
I came up with it but it probably could be improved.
And it says that we display the face by calculating the face location.
Again it kind of reads nicely we know what's happening here right.
And then we obviously have the components that we can take a look at but they're all descriptive enough
and we have an idea of if we need a feature implemented where to look.
So there you go.
It wasn't that bad just by going through the code looking at the endpoints and then some of the main
containers and components.
We have an idea of what the app does and you don't need to right away understand the entire code because
that will come over time as you start working on features and bugs.
You're going to discover different pieces of the code because as code bases get larger and larger it
really becomes more and more difficult to have everything in your head of how things work.
So don't feel overwhelmed if you come on to a project and they have tons of folders that you have no
idea what they're doing.
Like with anything.
Just take a bit by bit.
Understand the high level concepts how everything fits together how the dots are connected and when
a feature request such as Hey can we make this detect more than one face when that comes.
You start working on that feature and get really familiar to perhaps the face recognition component
and maybe the calculate face location function and you slowly start to understand the project.
But the main thing is you want to have an idea of what the overall picture is.
Never focus on the small things first.
Always start with the big picture and slowly narrow down your focus.
So with that said we have to implement a feature that Bruno asked.
That is to have multiple face detections because if I go back here and let's do a an image it has multiple
faces.
Let me see if I can have people and you let's see this picture.
I'm going to copy image address and paste it here.
Oh I get one that's good.
Let's say you are and I click the text.
All right.
Looks like it's only correcting one face but not the other.
So in the next video we're going to fix that based on the code view that we just did based on the analysis
that we just did and go about it in a smart way.
I'll see in the next one by my.